# Phishing Attack Prevention Using Visual Cryptography

### Project title: - Title Only

### Understanding / Scope – Not more than 50 words

Visual Cryptography Refers to the process of securing data against leak while making sure the actual data that needs to be stored is easily readable/recognizable by a human. The underlying algorithms can be considered secured and computationally expensive to break. This approach provides the user a system/method to check legibility of the website.

### Objective – Not more than 50 words

The amount of online services have grown a lot as well have fake illegible sites trying to steal money and personal information. Due to a huge increase in the latter There is a strict need for some methods which a non-technical user can easy utilize to verify the legibility of a website.

### Background – Not more than 300 words

A lot of online phishing scams happens to people on public networks like coffee shops, hotels, etc. A person using such insecure network if visits any site (social, banking, work, etc.) can't be too careful. A hacker can intercept the requests and return a phishing site which will be very similar (almost indistinguishable) in UI and UX. This poses a huge risk since the person has no idea that his credentials or access is compromised and a hacker can do a lot of harm to that person. He can do impersonation for some more attacks. He can make money withdrawals and other stuff as well. Having more access to his online accounts will give him access to his devices as well. He can infect the user's devices with malware which can be used to inflict attacks to the company he is working for. A security report will lead to the infected person as the cause of the attack and is disastrous. The more resources a person has, the more at risk he is from phishing attacks. A lot of people do not know the technical knowledge of how these attacks happens and catch them. Hence a there needs to be a method provided by the sites providing access to critical resources (money, stocks, work resources). These are not the only site which should implement the countermeasures, a lot of other services like Mail, Social, Blogs should also need to have proper system to prevent phishing attacks.

### Literature Review – Not more than 1500 words

The Security provided by Visual Cryptography has proved very useful in a wide range of applications and uses. The most notable being in Banking Systems for generation of one-time-pad, In electronic voting inside corporations or government. A lot of these systems require very critical security and visual cryptography provides it the method to check the legibility of the system. The main requirement for security in these areas is the gullibility of the end user in trusting a site which looks genuine. In the recent years such attacks/spams have increased exponentially. The reason being a lot of services embracing internet and expanding their services online. Movie tickets booking, online ordering of products, etc. all opens up the risk of phishing which might seem of not much damage but can. For example, take a person Bob, he is not a tech-savvy and like most people forgets password often and uses same password across multiple accounts. He used a compromised network to visit some site like Netflix, which was phished by some hacker. Now the hacker has got the credentials for his Netflix account, but that's just beginning. He can gather a lot of information now to make a spear phishing attack. He would have access to his watch history which is useful information, he will also get his list of devices connected to Netflix, the hacker most probably has a tool to check on which sites has the user created an account and can get access to them too from the same or a little different password. The user will have no idea, the hacker can be using his emails for some services etc., without the knowledge of the user. Which are usually made to create attacks impersonating the user, which leads to the user being considered as the hacker and even worse situations. A lot of time spear-phishing is done against people with more power (Government employees, etc.) or people holding high jobs in a company, mostly to blackmail them for money. But that's not the case now. The phishing attacks have come out against normal people as well. Social Networking sites are a very big target for a lot of hackers since a lot of people use them a lot. Many people as mentioned before use same/similar password so their other accounts can be compromised. But there is still more things than can be used to a hacker. Phishing a users' credentials on a social site can not only reveal private details (photos, messages, etc.) of the user, it can also lead to private information of other person which can lead to a lot of problems. In current world a person's life lies on the internet, with such types of possible and undetectable attacks it is now imperative that there should be a way to distinguish legitimate websites so that a user can have a peace of mind and be more secure on the internet. There are many techniques in which Visual Cryptography can be applied to provide a more secure experience for the user. Some services like banking use a captcha image to generate a onetime password, others use it to verify credentials in online voting. Visual Cryptography is a little different from normal Cryptography. In Visual Cryptography we distribute a message known to user in two images which own their own cannot be used to generate the original image. Every time the user is required to log in, he will upload the image to the website, the website will do the transposition of two images and return the image. The correct image will contain a human readable captcha which will be asked to enter the text shown in captcha. Which will prevent phishing attacks. Some similar mechanisms are already in place within the upper levels of large corporations, which have really sensitive information. The algorithm is designed to be one way and finding the second image is impossible using the first. This makes the captcha one time use only. The user can check if the website is legible if the captcha is readable. If not it is safe to assume he is being attacked. Knowledge of being attacked is crucial is phishing attacks situations since a person can now contact the respective website and lodge his details. That way the phished credentials will be invalidated as soon as possible. This will however make browsing on public web more secure for a normal user. Phishing attacks can also be done by sharing your authenticated device to a coworker or using an infected device yourself. The user must be still vigilant while doing transactions or logging in to important sites from another device. He should also clear the password, log himself out etc.  A lot of attacks goes by asking for a user's device for a little time and infect is with malware. Once that is done the user can continue to work without realizing his device is compromised and might leak his passwords. Using Visual Cryptography as a Two Step verification process will prevent even such attacks to some extent.

### Justification of the title – Not more than 100 words

Visual Cryptography is interesting and very powerful and has a lot of potential of being used as a extra method of reverse identity verification. This can help secure a lot of people who do not know about a lot about phishing and spamming and how to prevent them. A person using a secure site will now be able to detect if his credentials might be compromised and take preventive and securing actions.

### Your Analysis – Not more than 3000 words (May Include Additional Notes – as Annexure)

Internet is now the backbone of current society. It has become the major source of knowledge, communication, finance, shopping, entertainment, etc. There are a lot of companies and websites which provide the user these wide range of facilities for free or a fee. 

The internet was not initially designed for all these activities. The initial system was designed to share documents across devices which are connected together. It was meant as a library open access to all system. So the security section was not focused a lot in the initial version of protocols and implementation. Once the world realized the potential of Internet new type of services started emerging like mail. They were the first of the services which required security but not a lot of focus was given at that time to think that cyber crime could be possible. The SMTP, HTTP protocols are stateless and do not provide security, leading to a wide range of attacks. Such attacks were possible and since changing protocol is very difficult, so developers started added security in the application layer since that was the only way possible. This lead to the discovery of a lot of attacks on browser and servers and more type of attacks came into light. Some of those attacks are Cross Site Scripting (XSS), Cross Origin Resource Sharing(CORS), etc.  To secure against that attack there were techniques generated. CSRF was created to secure against XSS and similarly other techniques were generated. But still now there is no way to verify if a website is legitimate. There are quick ways like checking domain in the URL, but there are even attacks which can fake that as well on an open network and a person who doesn't know the details, even a person who knows that cannot be too careful and got their credentials leaked. The range of private details that can be compromised is very wide and the damage those details can cause to an individual is beyond comprehension.

Due to all the domain of the attacks and the damage they can inflict there is now confirmation for the need of a mechanism to verify a website's integrity. Visual Cryptography is usually implemented as a system which divides an image into two noisy images and when both images are merged back the original image is generated. Also it is made in such a way that is impossible to find the image from a single piece. There are a lot of applications of Visual Cryptography. In [[2](#Bibliography)] an approach was mentioned to use Visual Cryptography as a secondary credential for authentication for voting systems. It secured the process and also provided the user with acknowledgement of his vote registered correctly. The process was simple which required one part of the image to be sent to the user through a secure channel like Email. From where a user can go to the webpage and upload his section of the image and cast his vote. The vote casted will be non changeable as well the Image will be one time use. The images will form a captcha and if there is an illegitimate site then the captcha will not readable to the user and the user will realize that the website is wrong and wont proceed with further credentials. If a malicious user tries to use a random image on the legitimate site the captcha generated by merging will be garbage and unreadable.

There are a lot of platforms which can use Visual Cryptography to secure the user and site experience. A common example is banking or similar currency handling websites. Since currency is one of the most valuable asset, it requires more vigilance from the user as well as the organization to protect its assets. Implementing Visual Cryptography in banking services will prevent a lot of fraud transactions. Visual Cryptography as a one-time-pad system is very secure system.

Other sites can also include this system as a level oriented system where a user has to provide this credentials when there is either some suspicious activity or he a accessing a more secured setting/area or logging in from a new device.

### Conclusion/Discussion – Not more than 300 words

In conclusion Visual Cryptography could make the internet a lot secure. It will help the people who are vigilant towards security verification as well as more regular users. This will also help elders and young people who are the prime target. There is, of course more research in making it more secure but still its a great system which provides safety against a very large and powerful attack.

### Bibliography

1. https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/741b/8ec225d0793f53fcdc0cead33b8164998ac2.pdf

2. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/309614376_Prevention_of_phishing_attacks_in_voting_system_using_visual_cryptography

3. https://ijarcce.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/IJARCCE.2019.8428.pdf

4. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_cryptography#:~:text=Visual%20cryptography%20is%20a%20cryptographic,who%20developed%20it%20in%201994.

> Rules:
>
> 1. 100% paraphrased content (Plagiarism Strictly not allowed)
> 2. Font size 12 and line spacing 1.0
> 3. Font: Times New Roman
> 4. Format: electronic submission - PDF
> 5. -----------------------------End of Template-----------------------------

